Hello. Okay, we're live and we are no
longer dropping frames. So, I think we
just were on a bad reream
server.
Hi. I've been trying to figure that out.
It's been doing that every so often.
Hopefully, now stream should be nice and
stable because everything else on my end
is uh is aok. Okay, so we did this
yesterday. This was pretty
cool. 80 mill steps of breakout at 2.7
mills per second, 29 seconds
solve. And this is 80 million frames
with no frame skip. So, um I mean
arguably this isn't even really sample
inefficient at all either.
So, here's the plan for
today. It's currently
8:34. We're going to put in about a
2hour morning session here, maybe two
and a half. We'll
see. And uh the main thing I want to do
is just see with all the improvements
we've made to buffer whether we can get
away with way faster training settings.
So the idea here is that there are
settings you can apply that are faster
during wall clock
time but they may or may not train
stably that depends on your
algorithm. So now with
Muon and with advantage filtering and
puffer advantage and all the things that
we've done over the last
month, can
we actually bring Puffer to the point
where we are no longer training at a
million steps per second. We're training
at multiple millions of steps per
second. There is one thing I want to
test just for hahas.
before we really start on this. And
um yeah, let's let's do one other thing
just for a here.
I think we might have to change the
optimal uh the learning rate for this.
So, I'll do like two
experiments. Uh
oh. Ah, right. I uh I forgot I broke
non-recurrent policies. All
right, we'll do that later then. Let me
go grab the original breakout params.
And I think we're going to actually be
able to set this up as a proper
experiment like uh with like actual
clean comparisons before and after with
all the new organizational stuff I set
up. Do start the repo. Helps us out a
lot.
Okay, so before we had all these
parameters, we're just going to take
these and we are going to use these on
breakout for the
before. And I'm going to set this up as
Neptune. And this is going to be
um slow
baseline. We're going to do this for all
the amps.
We grab our Neptune. This is the neural
MMO run from last night as well. This is
30 billion and we're at
4.7. Actually, let me check real quick
if that's any good.
Is this the new one here?
Yeah, it is this one here. So, this one
is perfectly on par so far, it looks
like with the other
ones. And uh hopefully it stays that
way. Let's get our
key. I have a lot of things I want to
try on neural MMO.
in the next several
days. One of the things I've never been
great at as a researcher is scheduling
experiments so that I always have
something, you know, the next idea
running. It's been very difficult to
like
align like my thinking about a specific
topic to the amount of time jobs will
take.
But we're still making good progress on
that
one. Okay. So, why why is breakup slow?
That makes no sense,
right? Upper
breakout.
Um, is something wrong with this
config? I am
confused. Just take Neptune off.
Yeah. So this is fast,
right? 32k mini
batch 4096
ms. Do you see anything that would mess
up the speed?
Now, this was fast before as well. I
This is going to be some weird compile
bug. How do we regenerate
kernel? How do we regenerate the kernel?
I'm trying to think.
actually here. Let's try this.
Make sure there's nothing else I could
possibly have messed up
here. I don't see anything.
The fact that it's
63. Yeah, it's all in training as
well. Would suggest the optimizer screwy
somehow,
right? Where is
definitely has an LSTM in
there. So, uh, that's
bizarre. Oh, update epoch 64. How did
this
happen? Yeah, how did this happen?
That's really
weird. Well,
whatever. Let
me At least it's not something crazy
cursed.
Okay. So, we'll get our low bas
It's a little more sample efficient on
the original.
We'll do fast
baseline. I will get an additional tab.
So, not a perfect
solve in
uh Oh,
no. I mean, that's pretty darn
close. This is 60. Was this? No. 80 mil.
And then here this one
is 80 mil. So now see this one is
flatlined up here way
before. So hang on let
me be
higher or should it just be more
steps? We could add a very
small. We could go up to 100
mil and then this should still be way
faster, right?
Or do we think
not? So we get the 29
seconds. These are both about 29
seconds.
That's
interesting. So then I mean this is not
properly tuned
though. Can we get this one to
be almost as sample efficient?
Right. Let's see.
So default 0.025.
So we would like to do
0 0.1 which is this crazy high learning
rate since we 4xed the mini batch
size. We double the number of
environments as
well. I believe we did.
Okay. So, this is not
stable. This is not
stable. Should it be linear
increase or should it be square
root? I think it is linear.
increase. So
here, so it's slightly less sample
efficient it seems because we can't
quite support the uh linear increase to
learning
rate. Not quite.
Do it this way.
Oh, now this is failing
too. Okay, something is screwy here.
Didn't I
just I had this at 075.
Is there a does this need like a warm up
or
something? So, you can also do this.
This would be
safer, but I think that this one might
learn too slowly.
And I'd really like to push this if I
can. If we can get the mini batch to be
if st training is like stable at this
mini batch size, everything just gets
faster.
Oh, there we are.
So, we should
probably do a couple runs of this since
there's going to be some variance,
right?
But just doubling the learning rate
seems to
do most of what you'd want.
Yeah, there is a little bit of variance
though as to like when it
solves because this is now on par with
the previous learning rate curve.
I would still
expect I would still kind of want this
to be default
though. If you do if we don't push the
learning rate too high, the larger mini
batch should be stable and it should
help more on complex ends.
the data gets less off policy. There are
like a lot of benefits to this. Yeah. So
it's somewhere in this
window. Somewhere in this
window it should pull solve if I just
give it 100 mil,
right? Like 25 mil frames.
This dip in the curve also right here.
This is kind of a cool artifact in RL.
This is where it clears the first screen
of bricks. So like it has to learn to
hit the last brick reliably because it's
kind of hard to hit.
So like you actually get learn curves in
RL that sometimes reflect specific
difficulties in the
environment. Okay. So there we go. This
one is that's a full salt. That's
good. 32
seconds. I don't really think we need
that. I think we can just leave it on
this.
We can always double them for the uh the
demos, right? They can just train twice
as long for the
demos. This is like still pretty
good. Uh we'll just
use whatever the first one
was. This one's
old
here. We'll we'll be fair. Let's just
remove all these
That
There we are. So, we've got our 29
second 26 second now 3 mil training uh 3
mil stat per second run. And we've got
this run which is actually fairly
close but a little slower.
little slower
overall and then the training speed is
like
half. Okay. So, next we're going to
do we're going to see if we can do the
same thing on
palm. I'm just going to go through all
the ends and See if we can get
uh ludicrously fast training with the
new
infra. So poke should be comparable
maybe slower I think slower actually
training of the number of ends.
This one might be a little difficult,
come to think of it, because it's like
only 20 mil total steps. So, this might
be tough to
match. So, what I was going to do
first, if I
just I'm pretty sure this makes it
worse. We'll
see. It'll make it
fast. So, yeah, immediately this is now
three times the
speed. And I haven't even fixed training
yet.
Yeah, but we only get a score of
17. Let's try if I do
this. What happens when I do this? This
should go over 3 million.
4 million step per second training.
Okay,
there. Yeah, but see it doesn't it
doesn't like train.
Well, let's see if this one happens to
be stable with higher
LR. I'm just curious.
This is not even with a trivial model is
the cool thing. Like this could be even
substantially faster with um without the
LSTM on it.
So this is actually
the training speed with like a
reasonable
model little MLP into LSTM, not just
like a 2A or MLP or something
dumb. We might have to change the eval
intervals though. This takes forever to
evaluate. I don't know why it's like
getting this many data points.
Uh, okay. So, it actually,
interestingly, it didn't do really any
better, but it also didn't do worse. If
I just up this to
40, it'll still be faster.
Where's
info? Um,
why? Wait, why is there no info coming
back from
this? Oh, this is the wrong one.
tick percent log
interval. So this is 128 *
4,000
80. It's just not getting logs back.
That should be getting logs back
though, I guess. Like the games just
take a long time to
finish.
Evaluated 100 million steps.
Okay, we're gonna have to mess with the
eval stuff
today. So, like what's going on with
this that it's
not something screwing
I can't see anywhere where you'd be
dropping
logs, right? Where you'd be throwing
away
logs. Unless I'm doing it by mistake in
clean puffer.
Yeah. So you wait
for this should be totally
fine. Let's see if it's just a sample
thing.
Oops, wrong
one. Like, does this thing eventually
log? I 8x to the number of environments.
I should still be getting logs. There we
are. Oh, and then it get consistent. So,
it just it doesn't even finish the uh
the episode, I guess. What
happened? Okay.
274 is the episode
length and it's not training
stably or
something. No, it
is. Oh, you know what? This
is 74
times I mean there's only 2 million.
Hang on. There are 8192 total
ms and it's only 274 episode length. No,
but the 274 episode length can't be
right. That's really short for
fall and it jumps up to uh to 20 score.
So basically, it's like I think what's
happening is the games are really long.
So, you don't actually get to see the
good policy during training because it's
literally just playing one game, but
then it just knows how to play the game
perfectly, which would then actually
imply that you need to reset the
environment.
Yeah. So, that's a perfect
solve.
Okay. But the logging is just not going
to
be great for pawn because the games are
really long. Okay. But the eval at the
end should be accurate.
Maybe might have to reset the ends.
Hey, can you reset the end after
it's I think you can
make and
then when does it get called and
reset
it I'm just concerned here basically the
thing I'm worried about is if the
episodes are really long it might like
during evaluation not run new games it
might just be finishing all the games
from stale policies. So I think that you
got to have a reset in
there. Okay. So this is now
and presumably is not stable if I do
this.
You know, the other thing I'm realizing
is we could
retune. We could not go crazy with this.
Yeah. So, this isn't
stable. Um, but if I do like 80, it's
probably good. So, what we could do is
we could retune breakout,
right? Or the high batch size. That's
probably going to give us some different
optimal hypers.
And then we could apply those across
everything. They're literally 30 second
runs. We could probably do that live,
couldn't
we? Why don't I just set that up right
now? Okay. So, yeah, this solves an 80.
So Adam epsilon Adam
beta I believe 64 is max BPD horizon
right 8192
Yes. 64 is going to be
max gradient norm value
function. We don't really need to tune
update epochs.
Right. Tuning in. Did you do anything
with impulse? Not yet, Captain. And what
I'm currently trying to do is I'm trying
to see if I can get stable large mini
batch training, which should help all of
us on
everything. Okay, so that's now just
tuning like the standard stuff.
And
well, I forget anything
else. Werger. It's um they're faster to
train. Do you see this 4 million step
per second pong?
That's with a real policy as well. We
can make it substantially faster than
that with um like a silly two-layer MLP.
Okay. So unless Colonel
Colonel Jen messes us
up. We should, this is the crazy thing,
we should literally be able to do a
breakout sweep
live. Why did it just train for 50 mil
steps? Oh, cuz the sweep. Hang on. Yeah,
we don't want that.
mil. We should literally be able to do a
hyper pram sweep
live because the runs are 30
seconds. Eval might be a little
annoying. We'll
see. But
um yeah, 30 second breakout runs is kind
of nuts.
I'd be interested to see how larger mini
batches do impulse wars. I did three or
so
sweeps. Protein never seemed to want to
explore
it. Didn't find good runs. Yeah. So,
previously, right, here's the thing with
larger mini batch size. You get fewer
gradient updates. So you need to be able
to
actually make large stable updates for
it to be useful. And what it seems to
me is that because of all the new
algorithm improvements we've made, it
seems substantially easier to do that
than it was before.
Muan and such are more sample. It's not
necessarily that it's more sample
efficient, it's that it's more
stable. So it means that like I can push
the learning rate higher. So I can make
larger gradient updates than I could
with Adam.
That's what it seems.
It's weird how like the first few
experiments really aren't finding very
much.
Huh. Uh it's still training past the
allotted time step budget actually,
isn't it?
Uh, I'm not sweeping total time steps.
At least I shouldn't be. What the heck
is it
doing? I Yeah.
The
hell it's just doing what it wants. I
guess that seems like a
bug. You know what? I don't know why
it's doing that, but we'll let it we'll
let it cook a bit. We'll see what it
figures out because it actually seems
like it got a lot of information out of
that run, right? Cuz now all of a sudden
it's got like a
reasonable like it got more reasonable
perf much much faster.
It should be reporting 10 10 data points
for each of these runs as well. So it
actually should learn from the whole
curve. Just let Muan do its thing.
protein do its thing. I do want to
figure out what the heck it is that's
causing that bug in the
meantime. Oh, this is is this here?
Oh yeah, this is the
bug. It just keeps going up and up in
total time
steps. Yeah, we got to fix that.
There's the
bug when I increase the mini
bath. Yeah, that's not
um that's not a good thing to do really.
So there is like a log failure
thing. I got to come up with a better
way of doing this
though. Well, now at least now we know
why that was
happening. It was just going to keep
running longer and longer experiments.
Uh, yes, we could technically do that,
but I don't know if I want
to. The other option would just be to
like correctly constrain the search
space.
You know, I could do something like you
add constraints like X frame not bigger
than Y frame or
whatever. Okay, this seems like it's
already way better.
Yeah, this is already way better.
Hyper pram tuning in real
time. We also might want to do runs and
child processes.
I generally don't like kicking stuff
into subprocesses when I can avoid
it.
[Music]
Um because you end up eating error
messages and stuff.
I would think that the better solution
here would be to just constrain the surf
space more
correctly and like we could add more
stuff into protein to help with
that. Like there not that many like you
can't out of memory yourself by
increasing the learning rate or
something. It's literally just like
batch size, mini batch size.
Maybe BPD horizon.
Yeah, it's a little tricky to like
detect if max batch size can
OM.
Um, I guess now with like var variable
net sizes, you can also do that, which
is a little
janky. I want to think about it. I don't
want to just like throw everything into
a subprocess by default. That seems like
a bad hack cuz that like that literally
makes all of the errors more annoying
now because now you get like stuff
obscured by being in a subprocess eating
traces and whatever.
Can we just bring up the fact real quick
that um while we've been having this
conversation, we've done nearly a
billion steps worth of sweep
experiments. You can just
set standard out and air to parents and
that's not really the issue.
you do screw yourself from being able to
set a break point on error,
right? Like right now, this is actually
one of the things I was really proud
about with the new sweep system is
because we don't have womb's thing that
like throws it into a thread or
whatever, you can like set conditional
break points or whatever in a sweep and
you will hit them and you can just debug
3 million steps per second training is
about 10 billion steps per
hour. 10 billion steps per hour is wild.
This is on the 4090 as well, not even
the 5090. This is just on my local
machine.
I
mean, I agree with the problem that you
brought up of
like sweep should be stable and not just
crash due to OM. I don't necessarily
like these proposed solutions.
I think you would get like 80% of the
way there.
Um, so the place where it's most likely
going to OM is on
the it's the train step, right? like the
backwards like you have to do forwards
backwards on a mini batch of like 32K or
whatever. I could probably just
dynamically adjust gradient accumulation
based on your network size and get like
90% of the way there, Captain.
So there's um when you do the training
step, right, there's a maximum mini
batch size. That's the most memory
intensive thing in uh in puffer like by
a mile because that's you have to have
you're doing a forward pass over 32k
samples or whatever say if you have a
big mini batch and you have to keep
around all the activations to do the
backwards pass.
um plus like all the optimizer state
stuff.
So, but I have gradient accumulation
where you can do you can split that mini
batch into a smaller number of mini
batches and have the result be identical
and it's actually hardware efficient to
do that with larger networks as well. I
can probably just set that automatically
and that'll catch like 90% of
OM. Hello
Spencer. I have been sent a link.
Interesting. This one looks pretty
good. These curves are a little
wacky, but
interesting. Something like that. Yeah.
I wouldn't do it based on VRAM. I would
just do like a rough thing based on
network
size and catch most of them.
orange one's not
bad. This is only 250 mil steps as
well. How are we doing on
our sweep
here? Oh, we're getting
somewhere. We're getting somewhere.
I kind of expected this to find good
hypers a lot quicker considering that
the defaults were
uh were so good. Let me make sure I
didn't mess anything up in um in the
configs for this.
mess something
up. I don't think
so. Probably just takes a while to sweep
over all the
stuff. A lot of
hyper. We are not even sweeping any of
these priority replay things yet either.
That should be able to make it a lot
better.
Maybe let's see what it's doing
on sample wise.
Pretty high learning
rates. I should probably have this
I don't think there is actually a way
for me to like log the parto front
correctly value
[Music]
coefficient form.
and we have a couple runs in here right
now that are
decent. Yeah, there are a couple decent
runs
here. Wait, if these are
at Were the Did these just get run?
We didn't have these a second ago, did
we? Oh, no, we
did. Yeah, we
did. Perfect is just a normalized
four. It's the same as if I do this same
exact curve changes the axis to be
whatever the M specific metric scale
is. I wanted all the M's to have a PF so
that like we can benchmark all the
different M's and put them on the same
plot and get like an average or
whatever.
So, I added that to
everything. For Impulse Wars, it would
just be like the win rate or whatever.
You would just log a one for a win and a
zero for a loss.
Yeah, that's what you would do or perf.
Yeah, I can't call it score because some
environments actually like have a
score, right? So that needs to be called
score. So I made this just like a
normalized
thing. And you can't even call it like
normalized score because like Enduro has
a score that you could normalize, but
that's not actually the metric that you
would like to log.
So, it's a little silly. Okay.
So that was a probably too high learning
rate in crashing.
I'm trying to think what um what protein
actually does when you have the same
cost
everywhere. It should still work. I got
to like there's some cases to analyze.
pretty
good. Oh, I thought I had
uh Yeah, if you zoom out, we have six
here as the best,
right? Close to six.
What is going on with our breakout
sweep? Why is this thing having such a
hard time
finding good
parameters? Like some of these runs are
pretty reasonable.
Okay, we are making some progress. We
are starting to get some better
runs. My hope here was that it would be
pretty easy to like reune this thing.
Do we have any predictions here?
Like what should change? Maybe like
gradient clipping and stuff should
change. We actually haven't swept that
lately at all
either. I kind of have to do that again.
So, we'll give this uh we'll give this a
few more runs to see if it finds
anything because these are starting to
get better. Um, and then I think what
I'll do is I'll just take whatever I
have from that. I'll throw like some
fast version on any of the M's where I
can get it to like remotely work. And
then from
there, we can do like a more full sweep.
uh or we can start like doing some more
full sweeps on all the new parameters
and stuff to see if we can really
optimize and then uh we test on the
harder M like neural MMO to see if they
actually you know the stuff that we find
on the simpler M actually holds up. I
think that's going to be the play. We
just got a good run as well, didn't
we? Yeah. So, we are making progress
here.
This is a pretty interesting gap here.
This like train to
eval. This means that
um the actual length of a game is is
pretty long.
Like you know maybe a game lasts this
long or whatever. You have an old policy
at the start of the game and you lose a
few lives or something on
it would be my
guess. There's a big eval gap from here
to
here like
vertically. Ah. So here this is what I
was looking at right. So
079 it is trying to
find higher learning rates that are
stable. It looks
like it's very difficult to get the this
to be stable. But if it can find other
hypers that help this be stable then you
would expect a learning rate around
here based on the batch size.
Uh, also gamma is
not going as ludicrously high as it was
before. There is actually a fair bit of
shift I think in what I'm seeing here so
far compared to what we had before.
That should be being this low is a
little
weird. And here is the parrito
front, I guess. Is this going to just be
from BPT
Horizon? No, because it's mostly these.
So, this is just like run tor run
variance. 10 20% run to run just
variance.
Oh
wow. Start looking at some of the other
amps. Snake is one where we were able to
get it to go like really fast. Hey, what
are you up to today? Hey, Cash. So, we
got uh yesterday we kind of realized
that we're starting to get to the point
where we can use larger batch sizes,
larger mini batch sizes, and have
training still be
stable. So, we're seeing if we can get
some of the simpler M baselines to now
be training at like 2 to 4 million steps
per second instead of 0 to 1
million. So, now this is a this is kind
of cool. This is we're sweeping
breakout. I'm literally doing this sweep
live because the runs are 30 seconds
each. It's doing like 10 billion steps
of training per
hour is pretty
crazy. And actually, you know, there's
still like 25% overhead just on copying
data to GPU here.
This could actually be made a fair bit
faster even potentially.
Now, the only annoying thing here is I
think that um the Perf improvements
aren't going to be as significant for uh
larger networks, but it is still
important for us to bring up the
experiment
speed on these smaller
ones. And I think that you're still
going to be able to use the same like
batch sizes and stuff on the larger
nets. And it should still be nice and
stable. It probably just won't have the
same
uh the same like wall clock perf
improvement, but you would actually
expect larger batch sizes to be good on
more complex ends. Anyways, this is
generally like a reasonable reasonable
direction to
go. Did I like totally mess something up
or like why why don't we have a full
solve here?
We had a full solve with the original
hypers. I was just trying to do better
than that.
possibly just needs a really big sweep.
I don't know.
I say we give this 50 experiments and
then we call
it unless this does something wild in
the next couple of experiments. We'll
take this part of the work offline and
uh we'll just see if we can get current
hypers to do something reasonable and
then we'll expect that if we run a much
larger
sweep that we should be able to do
uh to do better potentially than this
because we know that there are better
hyperparameters in the space than this.
It's just about running a long enough
sweep to find them possibly messing with
the defaults as well.
Okay. So, nothing really amazing with
this, but this is your sweep. This is 50
experiments. We just did this live. 50
experiments is that four billion steps
of
data. Uh 3.2 billion steps of
data.
Cool. I believe we had Pong running,
right?
Good palm
curve does solve though.
You're just doing this
wrong. So, this is this is slow
baseline.
That is not good
either. Hang on. I'm messing up ton of
stuff up
here. Let me just stop being
sloppy. Okay, now this should work
correctly.
And we should be able to crank some
experiments real quick.
We put this on fast baseline and we see
that it's fast
Okay, that's not bad. We have fast pace
line does
this kind of
screwy. Why
is Oh, because it ran a ton of evalu.
Sure.
There we
go. Ran a ton of
emails.
Here's the snake. Slow bass
blind. Snake was a fast end though,
right?
Shouldn't be any faster than pong
though. Maybe it gets like 3 4 mil
optimized 94. Very
good. So this is a very strong baseline
for snake.
And then we will
do this for the fast
one. Then this is num m is
eight. So 8
*
256 is only 2048. So we go to 16 m for
the uh the new baseline.
102. Yeah, this is a very
strong. This actually got better since
we picked some other stuff like 100 plus
from snake is kind of
crazy. This will be a good end for
actually I think for uh for testing the
larger batches.
You just sort of need stable updates on
this. That's going to be hard to beat
though. Curious to open the curve on
this.
So, it's pretty flat. It wiggles around
here a little bit. It does seem like it
goes up
slowly. 105.
So, I guess the bug fixes I applied
um actually helped because this is
higher than it is than it was before by
a couple points. Few more than a couple
points. It's
significant. I think it was like a 100
or something before. Now we're easily
above
hundreds. That's a very good result for
Snake.
At least this is giving me I mean the
one thing that this is doing and the
reason the part of the reason I do stuff
like this where I kind of just slowly
manually run experiments um this is
giving me a lot of confidence in the new
dev branch uh as being like a stable
high quality improvement like this is a
solid learn curve for Snake.
Snake is usually very hard to get like
above above this initial increment here.
It's usually quite difficult to do
better. I mean this is like a tiny
network right that is being trained for
300 mil and the tiny network is
continuing to
improve. Okay, so 3
minutes pretty good.
Now we run this one. Be
fast. The number of Twitch bots is kind
of ridiculous.
only 2.4
mil. I messed something up. I would have
expected more than that.
MS.
Uh, I didn't mess anything up. Numb
snakes.
256 40 96 snakes.
I guess this is the comp
policy. This is still a faster than I've
ever had a snake going on this, I
believe. So, it's still
good. And how are we doing
on on our run?
105. So we got up to like 108 or
whatever. So this is uh this is match.
So this is just
pre-performance. It just works on snake.
Can't
complain. 110. No compromises, just
wins.
Perfect. Favorite classes you took at
MIT during grad
years? I mean, not a single class was
remotely relevant or useful to anything
that I do now. Frankly, I like you only
take four core classes
um like required classes. I took some
business electives that were good.
Um let me think. Oh, the one course that
was very good though in no way directly
useful to what I do. I took Sixer's
theory course like his intro whatever it
is theory of computation course. So that
was kind of cool because I really had
not
done much proofbased math at all outside
of like the Stanford undergrad
requirements. Um, and like I actually
had time to do it properly. So I was
like, "Oh, okay. I see proof based math.
Like I could learn this if I put in
time. Like I understand how this works.
Cool." If it says theory of computation
then yeah. But like I took the NLP
course, wasn't useful. I mean, I took my
advisor's course, which is not by any
means a bad course, but like you know,
hopefully if you're there as a PhD
student, you already know all the
material if it's in your domain, right?
Um, and then I took a deep learning
hardware course that was
like kind of interesting and like yeah,
learning about like uh matrix multiply
tiling and stuff was
good, but um they used a bunch of kind
of
janky like per performance monitoring
tooling and
stuff. I mean that's what everyone
takes. I don't know if you're are you a
grad student or an
undergrad. Undergrad. Fair
enough. I mean, I did my undergrad. My
undergrad was Stanford.
Um I I don't think any of the
universities have like a lot of good
courses,
frankly. Uh there were a few good
ones like my undergrad course is
Stanford. So
the the data like the initial data
structures and algorithms course there
106x was like okay 103 was really good.
It's like complete newbie intro to
um I guess proof based mathematics as it
applies to CS like discrete stuff. Um
but it's like really well taught. Keith
is awesome. Uh, I hated the system
courses there. Actually, that's probably
the thing I'm most annoyed about is it
put me off of doing low-level
programming for 10 years. They were that
bad. And now I love low-level
programming.
Um, Jerry Kane's done like impressive
stuff, but he's just a terrible
lecturer. He's really, really bad uh at
communicating stuff, and the problem
sets were just
abysmal.
Um, 161 was there like was it the
advanced grad, it's not that great.
Their intro stats is good. Um, the best
like grad course there was 231N. I think
yeah, Stanford's uh deep learning course
is still better than
MIT's.
Um, yeah, I don't know. I would imagine
that probably like other engineering
disciplines at MIT have cool stuff, but
there wasn't much in CS that I know of
specifically. The one thing that is that
was kind of cool um was I don't know if
you can do this is I think you actually
can as an undergrad just go enroll in
Sloan courses. Uh the business law
course was very
good. I think that one is pretty darn
useful for doing a startup. It's
basically like how to not accidentally
land yourself in jail when you're just
like a tech guy trying to make stuff.
So, that was
cool.
Um, yeah.
And if you just want a major confidence
boost, go like take one of the startup
courses there and see like the types of
people that are doing startups without
having a technical background and
like you would be like, "Oh, I should
just do my own thing now because this is
my competition. I should just do my own
stuff." So, uh yeah, that's the summary.
I wasn't much on courses. I just
generally do not enjoy doing courses at
all. Uh, I spent I spent the vast
majority of my time in grad and
undergrad on
research, but there were a few good
things. And there you go. There's
your probably more than you needed in
that
summary.
Mhm. Honestly,
like the main tricky that you got to
figure out is you got to figure out how
to like to spend time
uh in undergrad like on projects that
actually teach you stuff. That's the
tough thing, right? Whether it's
research or open source or you know
other things around there.
I suggest puffer
lift. Of course, you know, I'm a little
biased, but uh if you want to hack on
cool RL stuff and not deal with
ludicrously deep software stacks that
make no sense and learn low-level
programming stuff as well, you kind of
can't beat it.
Oh yeah, I got I actually have a
question for you because I never I
didn't really talk to many undergrads at
MIT. Is undergrad at MIT any
fun? My impression of like as an
undergrad at Stanford is that Stanford
is a lot more fun as an undergrad. Yes
and no.
I mean,
like, I think MIT just hammers you with
technical coursework a lot more. Like, I
still had I had like 90 hour weeks
average, I think, my freshman year at
Stanford, but that's cuz I did the whole
core my first
year. Stayed up all night laying out a
chip. That's kind of
cool. I don't know. My impression was
that like kind of regardless of what you
do, you're going to be ludicrously busy
at MIT. And uh the Stanford was more
like a choose your own adventure. So
like yeah, if I if you're going to do
the whole four your first year, you're
going to be busy, but like most people
really aren't that busy there.
No, no,
no. It's kind of a funny question. It's
like, do you have any fun?
I mean, being incredibly frank here,
right? I did a ton of just like
incredibly stupid stuff as an undergrad.
Um, I didn't touch anything but
alcohol. So, I reserved that, but I just
did a ton of incredibly stupid stuff.
And like I don't necessarily regret
regret as much because having been
incredibly straight laced everywhere
through my whole life leading up to
that, I think I'd feel like I'd missed
out if I hadn't. So undergrad is kind of
a time to get that good time to get that
out of your system. But at the same
time, it's also a good time to like, you
know, learn a bunch of stuff and get
really good at what you do. So there's a
balance.
You can minmax basically take the
minimum to graduate and be under 40
hours a week. That's not bad at
all. Too many classes I want to
take. If you like taking classes, then
sure. From the ones I took, many of them
just weren't useful to
me. like 15 hours a week working on a
side project would be more valuable than
a lot of the courses and that was true
of both but I think that's true
anywhere okay so we have this one and
now we will compare to
oops this
See you and best of luck. Thanks for
dropping by.
I'd say I have dramatically more fun now
though than I did in undergrad with a
few exceptions. H maybe not. I think I
have less fun but I'm much happier
overall. I don't know.
All right, we're getting some training
here. This is looking
reasonable. So, we're
at.1 likely we'll be less ample
efficient here,
right?
Maybe max enjoyment is lower. is much
higher probably.
Yeah. I don't know. Last year kind of
just absolutely sucked.
Um and then this year I started the year
by nearly dying of
pneumonia. So,
uh but since then it's been pretty good.
I've just been enjoying getting myself
back into good shape and I've just been
cranking cranking out work on Puffer.
It's also I think it's having it be part
of the business is like part of a
business is really nice because it
doesn't really feel like I'm in just in
a hole anymore like working on stuff
that like you know you don't like the
most you get out of anything in academia
is maybe you get some recognition or
whatever but now it's like the
recognition comes in the form of people
DMing me for like for jobs right and
like interested like clients people want
wanting to hire copper for stuff. So,
it's cool. It's definitely
cool.
24.2. This is good.
2.3. This is a solid
perf. What else do we do?
I kind of want to try something
harder. I thought I did something with
it. Hang on.
It's going to get way better, I think,
as well with all the stuff we're
building lately.
I'm definitely working harder now though
than I did during the vast majority of
my
PhD, but I'm less burnt out from it.
Like the work is better.
And like also I don't have as many
ludicrously arbitrary
deadlines. So
like it's like go go go get the thing
get done, get the thing done, get the
thing done. But if it's like, hey, I
just can't do stuff today. I just need
to recharge. Like I can do that as
well. It's pretty good.
Welcome YouTube
folks. For anyone new here, this is live
reinforcement learning dev.
At the moment, this
is running a whole bunch of experiments
with much faster
configurations to see if with all the
new, excuse me, algorithm improvements
we've made lately,
uh, if we can get away
with larger batch sizes, mini batch
sizes, and uh, larger learning rates.
and seeing if we can actually like get
reinforcement learning at average of two
million steps per second instead of 1
million on a dozen different
environments. Okay, so Spencer's M. We
get 90 with his defaults.
and then it crashes a little bit
here. Mostly
90. That could be the cosine. No, it's
not coine aling. He has learning rate
off.
So, I'm just going to delete all his
hypers and uh see if it makes a
difference. No discredit to the folks
who did the hyperpar tuning. Uh I did
hyperparameter tuning for each and every
individual end like 200 runs before. But
uh we've made algorithmic improvements
and things are generally much more
robust now.
So you can almost use the same hypers
for everything almost. I
believe we might have to keep gamma at
like 0.98 or something. We will see.
This is just not
ebelling. Do
this. Interesting.
Okay, this is running. I'm going to rest
real quick. I'll be back. Then we'll
keep on this for a Nice.
How's this
looking?
85. So,
um, it's a bit
lower. It's a bit
lower. I do want to run One additional
experiment on this though
before we make
any proclamations because
uh I do expect that this is probably
just gamma being
off. Let me just try this.
I'd like to get tower climb uh with a
good baseline. This is a really good
end. Has configurable
difficulty. Did a really good
time. This is a 560k per
model. So we may have to
reduce learning rate a little bit. We'll
see. Oh, there you go. Look, there's the
perf.
Easy. It's just that
easy. All right. Well,
We can then
absolutely. We can absolutely use
these. Do I want to try this learning
rate this high? I guess we'll see if
this crashes. I expect that there's a
decent chance this
crashes. Try it on hard. That'll come
next. Let me get the uh let me see if we
get the fast params
first. So we will get rid of this one.
We'll keep the other one as the slow
baseline. This is good.
If this crash goes back down, it's cuz
the learning rate's too high. But, uh,
that seems like stable
0.95 to
me.
Uh, we crashing back.
No.
Cool. Hey, bet. What are we
doing? Leroy
Jenkins. We're always fixing RL.
Okay. So, I mean,
we're we're pretty happy with this,
right? This is a
million million steps per second on
uh like substantially larger model.
I think we're pretty happy with
that. So, I think we call this one here.
This works
fine. What else haven't I
done? There are a lot of them, right?
Jeez. Well, best of luck with that bet
and congratulations once
again. What are you up to today? We're
trying to get Well, uh, it's better to
just show you actually.
How's
this? 3 million step per second
training, 10 billion an hour.
I think it was pretty decent, right?
How did you fasterized
it? It just retuned the learning rate a
little bit. I haven't even reuned
everything. Wonder why copy overhead is
so high. I can do something about that.
I should be able to get it to zero uh
captain, but not
yet. Oh, this is interesting.
I guess it's not a multiple of eight.
work. What idea do you have for that
would be huge to remove
Uh, we can asynchronously queue up data
transfers, I'm pretty sure, but it's
it's like a pain in the ass to do it in
the multipprocessing
implementation. It'll be a lot easier
with a threading threaded
implementation. That doesn't work.
That's kind of weird.
I'm just I'm fiddling with some batch
size params to like make stuff fit. I'm
going to get like warnings on I'm going
to put warnings on all this stuff
obviously before the release.
You check this board.
There you
go. I'm also I've got a meeting on uh
I've got a meeting about the
professional thing that we discussed. Uh
we're going to do Friday. So hopefully
we get something going for next
week. The uh I was trying to set that up
for earlier this week, but the guy I
need to talk to about that has been
slammed with work.
So, also they're still trying to figure
out
specifics. There you
go. Box six is good. Okay. So, I think
I'm not going to ship any of the boxes
to main gear then. I think I'm just
going to like ship them direct to the
new facility today. some of
them. So, yeah, guys, get your work off
the boxes or like not off like make sure
everything is synced because I'm just
going to like grab them and start
shipping
stuff. I don't know how many I want to
ship initially and
like we're going to have to figure that
stuff
out. But like technically, as long as
there's internet, it shouldn't be that
bad, right?
Like worst case, I can just plug them
into various different outlets even if
our main electrical isn't
working. The sync
pool. I also think I'm going to take
both of my desktops with me just so like
we have one extra and like I don't have
to monopolize as many
boxes. Why is this 41,000 SPS?
Oh, the CPU trained
up. I have I have arrangements.
Bet. I thought I had fixed this.
Yeah, I've
Well, I have a It's We're not doing
that, but I've got arrangements. I also
have all the original boxes and packing
material that they were shipped to me
in.
So for this exact
purpose, does this not work here?
This new one's very nice
though. I will say this new one that I
have, it's like very
nice. It's like way
quieter. Yeah, it's like it's way
quieter.
um doesn't really like the cooling in
it's very
good like there are fewer move like
fewer parts that can go wrong. It's got
higher quality
fans. Oh, I didn't think about this, did
I?
Does the thread count have to be a
multiple of
um the block size that
thing? Like surely it doesn't have to be
a multiple of
the like surely you can have nonp power
of two matrices right or non multiple
128 apparently
not okay I had not considered this
uh is there anything I can do about this
for now fix
this none of these are going to be a
multiple of
I could do slightly larger or I could do
substantially
smaller like this.
2560. What if I did that?
That's actually
perfect for now. We just
do. So,
it's we want
2560Ns. No, we
want times two. So, we actually want
5120.
by 8 is
640. So we want 128
m. I think this
works. Oh, and then we actually hang on.
* 5 agents per n* 8 is
this. So now this is going to be
780. This is like
We're getting some weird numbers here,
but I just want to see if I can get
something to
We're going to have to figure out the
like nonp power of 2 M's thing with the
new CUDA kernels, but for now this
should be
reasonable. Remove this C.
Did I not do this right?
128 *
5 should be 128 * 5 * 4 2560 Next day.
I just want to see this end going
fast like this one is up is actually a
pretty
small setup.
Wait. Threads per
block two
blocks num steps plus threads per block
minus
one. How did it get two
blocks? That's definitely going to fail.
But
why 320 steps?
Yes. I'm quite confused.
There. There's a second one of these,
right? Oh, it's it's right
here. So, why why is this batch
weird? 320 by 64.
Oh, that's not a multiple of of 128.
Um, yeah, because the mini batch needs
to be Dang
it. And that's
annoying. I could do the BPD Horizon on
a multiple of two instead.
80. I think if I do
80 maybe this works. This is all just
because CUDA kernels are not
currently uh are kind of kind are kind
of fiddly at the moment. Total agents uh
but then the batch size gets messed up.
128 m, eight copies, five agents
each, 80 steps.
Okay, this this looks like these are all
nice
numbers. Perfect. One block and now that
works. So, um this is not going to be
optimal by any
means, but I want to see if this
actually does. We
A network this size should be able to be
trained quite
fast. Definitely over a million.
I don't think we've ever gotten this one
to be fast.
45% M
time. H the M should not be that
slow. I will have to go look at that.
But and bottleneck otherwise we should
be able to get something decent at
least. This one will return stats. Just
it takes a while. The games are really
long. There you
go. So I'll be happy with this for now.
If
um if it does train
reasonably. It just won a game. There we
go. Now it's winning games.
This is win rate versus scripted
opponents. And there you go. That's one
win rate.
We need to get some better opponents for
this because this is a really cool
end. All right, this works. Trains
500k
is and uh M needs to be optimized, but
this is all set. So, here's what I'm
going to do. I'm going to go get some
exercise, get some food. I'm going to
come back in the afternoon, continue
finishing all of these M's up. Uh, have
nice, clean, fast
configs. I will be back on stream for
that. And then tomorrow, I'm traveling
to the new facility. So, I've got to
take all my stuff over there. Um, we're
waiting on delivery of all sorts of new
setup for the stream. And uh yeah, once
that is set up, hopefully starting next
week, I'll be live from there, assuming
that everything's good with the internet
and electrical and all that. So for
folks watching, thanks for tuning in. If
you're interested in all this stuff,
it's all puffer.ai. It's all open
source. You can help me out for free by
starting the repo on GitHub. If you'd
like to get involved with dev, whether
you have an RL background or not, go in
the Discord.
Most of our top contributors came in
with zero RL
knowledge. Other than that, you can
follow me on X for more occasional RL
content. I post some articles there.